* St. Petersburg and Ellsberg
p.p.  246
Greg Mankiw, the Havard economist, wrote a widely circulated blog post in 2008 explaining that increased income taxes proposed by presidential candidate Barack Obama would lead him to slack off at work. After all, Mankiw was already at an equilibrium, where the utility of the dollars he'd earn from another hour of work would be exactly cancled by the negative utility imposed by the loss of an hour with his kids. Diminish the number of dollars Mankiw makes per hour, and that trade stops being worth it; he cuts back on work until he drops to the income level where an hour with his kids is worth the same to him as an hour spent working for his Obama-diminished pay. He agrees with Reagan's view of the economy as seen from the standpoint of a cowboy-movie star; when the tax rate goes up, you make fewer cowboy movies.

But not everybody is Greg Mankiw. In particluar, not everybody has the same utility curve he has. The comic essayist Fran Lebowitz tells a story about her youth in Manhattan, driving a cab. She started driving at the beginning of the month, she said, and kept driving every day until she'd made enough money to pary for rent and food. Then she stopped driving and wrote for the rest of the month. For Lebowitz, all money above certain threshold contributes essentially zero further utility; she has s different-looking curve than Mankiw does. Hers goes flat once her rent is paid. What happens to Fran Lebowitz if income taxes go up? She works more, not less, to bring herself back up to the threshold.
